When you encounter any difficulties, don't
hesitate to share your thoughts with
the Youth Club of the Three Golden Branches. I'm very
happy to meet all of you again
in the next episode of "Confessions with
the Youth Club of the Three Golden Branches." Our
special guest today, who is here
to answer your questions
and share her thoughts, is Buddhist devotee
Pham Thi Yen, Dharma name Tam Chieu Hoan Quan,
head of the Quoc Vang Club,
practicing the art of peace and harmony. Once again,
we feel very honored to have
her accompany us on this
program. Today, we
received a very long confession from a
member of the Youth Club in the
Hai Phong area. I would like to read the question directly:
Dear Ms. Yen, I am from the Hai
Phong area and I have a question I would like you to
answer. When I want to accumulate resources to
achieve something, I direct
my energy towards it and tell
myself that I can do it. In the past,
most of what I set out to achieve has been
possible, so I have
become confident and...  I have a feeling that I'm
good, but over time I've stopped achieving what
I wanted. However, I still
feel like some force is pulling me
towards doing that work more intensely. I
feel very disappointed and lose confidence in
communication. On the other hand, I only feel confident
when I still think I'm good and don't want
others to know this thought until
later. People sense
this thought of mine, and I feel very pressured
when I'm not as good as I think I am. I
hope you can help me
overcome this. I thank you for your kindness. Hello Duc Anh, hello to all the friends, and hello to the person who sent this question to the Youth Club. In this question, this person is also someone who has strived and achieved
success. In this world,
everyone who succeeds has made
an effort like this person. That is, when
people want to do something,
they focus their minds on it. Because focusing their minds leads to
thinking,
planning, and striving.  When they
focus their minds on something,
they encompass all these
joyful thoughts and believe that success is what makes them happy. Then
they
strive diligently and tirelessly,
sometimes working day and night. This kind of
work gives them a great capacity, a
capacity that
motivates them and prevents them from feeling
tired. Then they
achieve success, and
so do all people in life. When they achieve
success, they
feel happy, joyful, and
feel capable. Yes, they feel
capable. For example, a child—let me
say, a child—for instance, if you start by teaching a
baby to scoop food, you tell them to scoop, they
try,
they keep looking at you because you've taught
them many times before, you've helped them scoop, you've
taught them, and you let them imitate you. Then they scoop and
scoop,
they get it into their mouth, they let go, and
they smile.  Even though it's very small, the
mindset is the same, the
source of the mindset is the same. From the beginning, it's
learning, gaining
experience, then building confidence,
then setting direction for oneself to do
this work, then trying, trying,
and succeeding, and then feeling happy. That's a
journey no one can skip,
this inner process is the same for everyone. Then, at that point,
they start to feel that
they are really good, that they are really good.
This is also accumulated from a young age, from when
they were slow to walk, starting with their parents
or grandparents teaching them to walk, teaching them to stand, teaching them to be good, good, good, good, good, good.
Then they can stand, and they think, "That's
amazing!"
But then, with standing, they fall, and
people get excited, "Hey,
stand up! You're so good! You're so good! You're so good!"
Then they let go of their
hands, and the baby stands up. "That's
amazing!" Then they
fall down, and they laugh. That
means from a young age, they have received this
energy...  That's the strength. It means the child
will start trying to stand up and will be
very happy with the praise of
others. They will practice
what others teach them, and
when they achieve it, they will be happy and
feel very good. Everyone
supports each other like that, so
you also receive support like that and you have
succeeded. But now you
have an obstacle:
if you don't think you're
successful, if you don't think you're good, then you wo
n't be able to do it. That's the first problem
you presented.
Because you've had many successes,
because you've thought things through, you become confident.
That confidence leads to
subjectivity. That confidence leads to subjectivity, meaning you
misjudge
yourself. For example, before, because you were
n't yet successful,
you thought you weren't
really good, so you tried hard, you
thought, you calculated very well
because you were afraid of making mistakes, so you
calculated very well when...  After careful planning,
I put in the effort and
worked diligently, paying attention to detail
and striving for success. No matter what anyone says or
criticizes, my goal
is success, so I will strive
to achieve it. However, now that
I've achieved so much success, I
think I'm superior. Because I think I'm so good, I become complacent,
lacking critical thinking, planning, and proper organization.
Secondly, when someone points out my shortcomings,
I look down on them because of my complacency. This complacency leads to
arrogance and a reluctance to be taught.
This leads to failure.
Complacency means a lack of
realistic thinking in the present moment. In
Buddhism, the Buddha taught us to
dwell in the present moment, meaning we
must think sharply in the present.
Then, during the process, we become arrogant, look down on
others, and don't accept their feedback.
That's when we lose.
That blessing is lost, and if you lose that blessing,
your endeavors will not
succeed. I'll just give you an example. Let's say
you have a motorbike, and
it's new. That means the
tank is full. Those two
factors are what make it so appealing. When you want to go uphill,
you're very happy. You're the owner, you
can shift gears, you just give it a little push, and it goes
uphill. That means you use your heart and
focus on it, and it goes uphill. But if one
of those two factors—either the tank is empty or the
motorbike is old—then no matter
how much you push or how hard you push, it won't go up,
it won't budge. The
motorbike and the tank are like the
blessings you receive. If
your blessings have run out, then your calculations
will be wrong. Yes, no matter how hard you try,
you will still end up making
mistakes. Even if you try to calculate,
your calculations will be wrong.
Why is it wrong?
Because you don't have the blessings.
To be precise, that's not the
right approach. For example, there's an old saying, "
Seeing others eating sweet potatoes, I grab a shovel and go dig."
That thing is doing very well, but
when you start preparing
everything, it becomes outdated.
Or, you think your plan is great,
you do everything you can, you
plan to set up a location here,
rent a house, and then the
trend is that people on the other side set up
a bigger factory or supermarket. And then
you're doomed. So,
all of that depends on
your own karma. Therefore, whatever your
motivation, whatever you do is generated by
your karma. So,
when you work hard, you should accumulate
karma. For example, if you already have a
good motorbike, a good fuel tank, and you're using
it to earn money, you should set aside some money for repairs and
refueling so you can keep going.
The money spent on repairing and
maintaining this motorbike is what makes it durable
and allows it to continue
earning money. It's the same for each of us; we are
born into this life, beautiful or ugly,
intelligent or foolish,
knowing how to calculate and do business or being deceitful –
it all matters.
Understanding this fundamental principle, we
begin to strive to accumulate merit. The
first way is through our behavior towards our
parents. As the Buddha taught
in that sutra, the first thing to
consider when earning money is
supporting our parents. There are many
sutras and other programs you can see, like the one
in the "
Exploring the Garden of the Mind" program by the
master. So, to
have the right thoughts, the right effort, the
right calculations, and to achieve success
as you wish, you must accumulate merit. The
third point is that every time
you think about success, you will achieve
it, and then things will happen.  If it
fails and someone else finds out about
your thoughts, and you
feel very pressured, then
I will explain it to you like this:
In Buddhist scriptures, there are
stories about a person who,
after having a thought,
realizes that this thought was
influenced by some evil spirit. There are many such
stories in Buddhism. So, don't think that others can read your mind or your thoughts. You must understand that it's just
a thought; others can't read
your mind or know your thoughts. It's not like that. Don't
think
like that because thinking like that will put pressure on you because of the
karma from your previous life that created
this body.
The Buddha taught that this body is composed of the Five Aggregates: form, feeling, perception, volition, and
consciousness. That thought is also created by
karma from your previous life, which creates
your thoughts in this life.  In a
past life, I was arrogant or I relied on
my own abilities to be a teacher to others,
creating
karma that was untrue and deceitful. Now,
I am experiencing similar thoughts, some more,
some
less. Therefore,
you should practice this first: don't think about
others knowing your thoughts.
When such thoughts arise, say, "I repent. I beg
Buddha, I
repent. This is my evil karma that gave rise
to these thoughts; they are
not real, they are not true."
Then, examine your mind to make it
virtuous. After that,
you can also cultivate
merit and dedicate it to the
sentient beings who, due to your delusion, wrong views, and
arrogance from many past lives, you may have harmed or
led others astray.
That is how
you repent. And in
your practice,
to achieve success like this,
you also have...  There are many ways to do
good deeds, from speaking truthfully, to
sharing loving words, to
helping others a little, to giving
up your seat for someone else.
Always
use this kind of heart in
all your actions:
humility and respect. Because with humility, you
can serve others; with
respect, you can receive praise, offerings, and
sustenance.
When you are like that, you will
grow. I remember when I was little,
my father said something to my sisters, and
I learned it too. He said, "
One act of humility is worth four acts of self-praise."
So when I succeed in
something, I never fall into
the feeling that I am too good. Because I
always see people who are very good, because
I often praise those who are good, I feel that
what I do is
not as good as others, and
I always feel small.
That's the kind of prayer that
young people who come to practice at the Golden Temple
often read.  Always seeing
yourself as small, your spiritual practice is inadequate, always
feeling that what you currently have is
not what you aspire to
achieve because you want to achieve
more than what you currently have. And what you
have now is something many people are
much better at, not that you are the
best. You must also understand the law of cause and effect.
If you feel you are already good, that
very thought will block you
from having the opportunity to learn and
develop. This is
very dangerous. The thought that you are
already good is actually a poison that
blocks all the opportunities to help
you progress further. For example, imagine
a
creature crawling up here and thinking, "Oh,
this is the highest place, the highest place!" It
just stands there, under the
table, and doesn't look for a
way to climb higher. But
if it doesn't get rid of the thought that this is the
highest place, it will crawl upwards. So,
if we have that
thought...  Thinking in your head, "
I'm so good, I'm so good,
I'm so good, I'm so good, I'm the best!"
That kind of thinking is very harmful to you.
Normally, people say they reward themselves,
praise themselves, or praise themselves.
But you have to know that you're
not good yet; that's just
encouragement. You have to keep moving forward. When you
think like that, the right opportunities will come
to you. Otherwise, you're
like someone who's limited,
only taking what they can, not taking anything more.
So, I'm also guiding
you on how to contemplate the
causes and effects of karma so that
you can overcome the difficulties
you're facing, which are causing
you a lot of pressure and suffering. Yes,
thank you very much, teacher. I
hope that you, young people from the Youth Club of
Hai Phong, will find
very useful advice
and through this, you will see that
studying Buddhist teachings helps us
realize that there are still
many things we need to strive for,
as I said.  The prayers
that you often read when you come to the temple to study for a day,
you will feel that you are
still small and your spiritual practice is still inadequate, and we
must try harder. We
should feel fortunate to be able to come
to the temple to study and receive guidance from our
master, because our master also said that even
if we don't study many subjects, the
subject of the mind is a
subject we need to learn and
cultivate regularly. Through this,
I hope that you will always cultivate
more and try harder on your
path of spiritual practice. And through this,
we thank you very much, because
whenever young people encounter
difficulties and
want your answers, you are always
ready to share with them. I also
hope that there will be more programs where we
can invite you to participate in the Ba Vang Youth Club.
And on this occasion, I
hope that no matter what difficulties you face,
please don't hesitate to share them
with us, share your thoughts with the
Ba Vang Youth Club.
Thank you again, goodbye and see you again
[music]
[Applause]
again I
[music]
[Applause]